Rank & Rent SEO: How Ippei Built 130 Sites - and Made $240K From
One 15-Hour Website
Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.
We are talking about rank and rent on the podcast with Ipe Ipe. You've been requested a bunch
of times to come on this show and this is gonna be a great, great episode. I'm so hyped.
Thank you for coming on the pod. I appreciate you having me on and it's a great honor. I've been
watching your channel for quite a long time.
So it feels like I'm talking to a celebrity here. So yeah, it's good to go. Let's go.
Thank you. So, all right, just opening question for somebody new to the concept, what is rank and
rent? So rank and rent is unlike an SEO agency where you're ranking other business owners
websites, we're going to rank our own websites to the top of Google for local services. We really
love working with home construction type of industries, general contractors, you know, especially
in the U.S. people are homeowners here.
I don't, I think people underestimate how much money is exchanging hands just in your
neighborhood and your community each and every day. People need drywall done, wood
flooring, concrete, you know, these things sound so mundane. But when you get into it, you
realize how much money is exchanging hands.
You know, each one of these like concrete jobs might go five, ten thousand dollars. These
websites can also rank for commercial jobs. You know, I just recently had a roofing client close a
two hundred thousand dollar commercial roofing job.
And then with rank and rent, we rank our own websites. We add our tracking phone number on
these websites. And the tracking phone number is a really important key piece to this, because
every time one of my rank and rent sites generates a phone call for a local business owner, every
time they pick up the phone, the software attaches a whisper message at the beginning of the
call.
So for me, it'll say this lead was sent to you at the beginning of the call right before the customer
begins speaking. So now you own this website, you own this phone line. Once they start getting
these leads from you.
Another important piece is that, you know, when you're first trying to get into SEO or business for
that matter, like you have to sell something to somebody. Right. And that selling part of it can be
kind of challenging, especially like I started this business over 11 years ago.
I didn't have any sales experience. But with these websites, once they rank and generating leads,
we can start throwing free leads to these business owners using the whisper message. They're

hearing your name.
Then we reach out to the business owner and say, hey, I'm the guy that's been sending you those
leads the last couple of days. Would you like to work? Would you want more of those customers
or do you have the capacity to handle more of these customers? If so, then I like to create a long
term win win relationship. And then at that point, we're kind of be able to lead with results in
advance and be able to get our foot in the door with these business owners.
And once these business owners, you know, they're already intrigued. They want to know, like,
how did you even generate those customers? You start the relationship. I like starting the
relationship on a commission deal.
So you're pretty much risking all the you're removing all the risks from the business owner. Hey,
you know, like I like I know you just met me from the Internet. In order to prove myself, I like to
just start the relationship on a commission deal.
And if everything goes well, then eventually I like to do a flat fee rental where it makes sense for
both parties. And then after a month or two, the business owner is confident in you. There's trust
bill.
Then you can rent these websites out for a thousand dollars a month, two thousand dollars a
month. There's a few other ways to monetize it right now. I'm working with a huge construction
company in Los Angeles, which is where I'm located right now.
And with them, like they do like seven different services. I have dozens and dozens of these rank
and rank sites all across L.A. and seven different niches. And I'm API.
I have my call tracking software is API connected to their CRM. So I'm just getting paid straight
commissions on every job that they close. So that could be quite lucrative with the right business
owner where that trust and trust is built.
But for most rank and rank people, I think closing it on a flat fee provides a very predictable
residual income stream. Essentially, I mean, you know, I've been doing this for 11 years. I'm still a
big I still love the rank and rank model.
I mean, I have sites that I built over 11 years ago still paying me residual income to this day. I
have the business owner's credit card on file on Stripe. And, yeah, we build it on a weekly basis.
That's another like a hack is like it's better to build business owners weekly as opposed to
monthly so that they're not seeing this big fat bill at the end of the month where it's if it's weekly
250 a week, they don't see as much in their statements. Anyways, yeah, I mean, some of these
clients I haven't talked to in a couple of years and their credit cards on file and the money's
coming in and they don't really I don't really need to talk to unlike an SEO client where I have to
provide reports or I have to make sure that they're satisfied with my service or whatnot, like with

ranking. It's like I'm getting you the leads, you're paying me for the leads and that's it.
You're hearing my name every time you pick up the phone and I don't have to do that much
handholding or feel like, yeah, with SEO, I mean, there's a lot of money to be made as SEO
agency. However, you know, in my experience, some of the SEO clients like no matter how good
of a job you do, some clients just when they decide to cancel on you, there's nothing you can do.
So with ranking right, I feel that there's way less churn and burn.
And also, I think one good thing to or one interesting thing to note here is that a lot of these
general contractors like, you know, there may be a one man show or they're just not their
revenues, not quite there. They're the concrete guy or they're the tree care guy like these type of
business owners. They don't have the budget for an elite SEO agency.
You know, they don't have the budget to spend fifteen hundred a month or two thousand dollars a
month from SEO agency that might you might have to wait four or five, six months. So a lot of
these business owners will try an SEO agency, but they'll try like a cheaper one. You know,
there's a lot of like crappy agencies that are just selling like bullshit, like five hundred dollar a
month programs.
They'll sign up for that and then they don't get any results after four or five months and then they
cancel. They still didn't get the results. And this agency just built like maybe bad backlinks or
whatever.
And so a lot of these business owners have a bad taste in their mouth when it comes to SEO. So
with Rankin, we kind of like overstepped that entire objection that they have about SEO because
we're putting in the work, we're building and ranking the sites ourselves and then generating the
results, what they ultimately want, which are leads, which are customers to increase their bottom
line. So.
You know, you know, it's going to be an amazing episode when just an absurd amount of value is
delivered within the first like seven minutes. You know, it's going to be a good episode when you
get so much good stuff right there in the first seven minutes. All right.
Just going going back to the beginning and we're going to get into everything like choosing the
niche and location, building links, building the site, structure for the site, the Google business
profile. We're going to get into everything in this. But this method of marketing is so effective, I
had to make sure it wasn't against Google's rules before I kept using it.
It's a form of SEO I call compact keywords, whereas most SEO focuses on putting up articles to
answer questions, how, what, when. Compact keywords focuses on putting up dozens of pages
that sell to searchers who are actually looking to buy. These pages rank on Google and convert
so much better than normal that when I discovered this years ago, I couldn't believe this was
allowed.

It's less work, too. The average compact keywords landing page is only 415 words. Compact
keywords is a 13 hour deep course on getting sales with SEO.
A customer said, we spent nearly 18,000 in the last year and a half on marketing and SEO
through different agencies locally, and that did nothing. We decided to take the leap on the
compact keywords course. We're now getting about six to eight calls per day on a good day,
which is just unheard of.
Another customer said, give it to a junior employee, have them follow it exactly as Edwards laid
out. You don't have to do anything and you're going to gain a six figure SEO level employee just
by having them go through this course. Compact keywords is about setting up an SEO funnel that
brings you sales for years and years and years.
It works with AI. It's less work than traditional SEO, and it makes way more money. You can get it
now at compactkeywords.com. Back to the podcast.
Just going back to the beginning. How did you get started, man? Like, how did you get started?
And also what was, you've done so many sites, what was your most successful website? Yeah.
So, you know, I'm 37 right now.
I got started with RankinRent when I was 24, so roughly over 11 years ago. At the time I was 24.
So, you know, I went to Michigan State University.
I graduated with some BS degree, but at least I got the degree. I started working for an
automotive company in Michigan. It was a Japanese company.
I'm bilingual, so I can speak Japanese. I was born in Japan and then moved to the U.S. when I
was nine. So, I was working for this company that I hated the nine to five.
So, you know, after three years of working there, they gave me a standard 5% raise and my
monthly paycheck went up by $60 because my starting salary was low. It was $35K a year. So,
after taxes, I was only making $2,200 a month.
So, you know, that got, I got really desperate about like figuring out some other way. I always
dreamed of having a laptop lifestyle. Started doing a bunch of research online and came across
this program at the time was called JobKilling, ran by this guy named Dan Klein.
He was teaching RankinRent. I mean, this was in 2014. So, this was before there was like so
many online coaching programs out there.
And I joined, started, the whole business model made sense to me. At the time, we were building
like pretty like basic, quite ugly sites on Weebly. I started building like limousine sites in Michigan
and some tree care sites and towing sites.

Seven months later, I had like four or five clients. I was making $3,000, $4,000 a month. I put in
my two weeks notice at the job and I quit.
And I haven't looked back. I've been self-employed with RankinRent ever since. And two, three
years goes by and I'm at like $25K a month, $25K to $30K.
I'm like one of the top students in the community. He was doing like, we were doing Vegas events
every year. And yeah, and I started talking to Dan and me and him, like me and him started
talking about business.
And we started, we ended up becoming partners. And so, I ended up becoming partners with
Dan. And we started, we worked closely together for the last like seven, eight years.
This is kind of a long story, so I'll try to kind of speed it up here. But so, I got into some, so then
my focus started to shift towards the coaching program, right? So, I built a blog, epay.com, which
I still have to this day. At one point, I was spending like $50K a month on that site and content.
I was doing like top of the funnel, bottom of the funnel, course reviews, keywords about like
business models, like Amazon FBA drop shipping. And I was generating a bunch of these leads
for the coaching program. During the pandemic, like Dan made a bunch of money with online and
with offline, like really say he's a great entrepreneur.
And I think Dan was a great coach to get started with because he's not a SEO guy, even though
his model was teaching SEO. He's like he comes from a car sales background. And so, and I
think he's a he's a natural born entrepreneur, like he built like a bunch of different businesses.
So, he taught me the value of not just like getting good at SEO, but like how to build a business,
how to build a scalable business, how to be good at sales, how to position yourself with these
business owners so you can make lucrative deals. So, he taught me a lot about business, right?
Not just SEO. And to make a long story short, he kind of retired five years ago.
And, you know, the training videos are kind of older in that group. So, I launched my own
RankinRankin community like this past year. And in the last year, also, this blog, you know, like
HelloFresh and all these different blogs.
I mean, I got hit with those algorithmic updates as well. I mean, at one point, I was generating like
3,500 clicks on epay.com. But these days, like it went down to like two, 300 clicks to 300 per day
clicks, and I had to do a bunch of different things to try to recover. But, you know, and meanwhile,
I'm like, there's a few different algorithmic updates in the last seven years, like where the site
tanked, and I had to bring it back up.
But then I see these RankinRankin sites that I built over 11 years ago, and how steady the
rankings have been on all these sites. Dude, it's the bottom of the funnel. It's the bottom of the

funnel, man.
Bottom of the funnel doesn't die. Exactly. Yeah.
And I took your compact keyword course as well. Great, great program, especially for the price.
Yeah, amazing stuff.
Yeah, I'm a big believer in bottom of the funnel keywords as well. It's the sole reason I've survived
with SEO with all these different sites. And yeah, well, I mean, RankinRankin, we are targeting
bottom of the funnel, and it's like, that's where the money is made anyway, you know? So yeah,
so like the last year, I went fully back into RankinRankin, and I built like 130 sites in the last year
alone with RankinRankin brand new sites.
Oh my gosh. So I'm implementing more newer, advanced SEO tactics, as you can say, that I've
learned and implemented on epay.com. And I started applying on my RankinRankin sites. So
yeah, obviously, with those 130 sites, I'm kind of able to see what's working right now, as
opposed to like using tactics that I learned initially 11 years ago.
What's been your best site? I mean, I have a bunch of like sites that are now ranking Los Angeles
and all around Los Angeles. But I mean, the example that I like to always bring up is a tree care
site in Grand Rapids, Michigan, that I've owned for 11 years. And it's been making me two grand
a month for like 11 years, which is like that one site that I spent like 15 hours on has made me
over like $240,000, which is insane.
Yeah, talking about these simple websites and what they can produce long term. Yeah, dude,
that's that's amazing. What's what are the biggest misconceptions about the rank and rent
business model? There's so many misconceptions.
I made a video a few weeks ago about how like people are on Reddit, they're going rank and rent
is dead. Like, so yeah, so many misconceptions about this. Yeah, so I think the biggest biggest
hurdle or biggest complaint that people might have is that GBP has gotten the methods of getting
GBP has shifted over the years, right? Like ranking a website has always been a thing that's
important with rank and rent.
The thing I want to mention about GBP is that we're still getting them. We're doing these video
verifications, it might be a little bit more gray hat, but we can still get GBPs. And some niches are
more GBP dependent than other niches.
So for example, if you go into towing, like, I don't need to visit a towing website, like, I'm in a
hurry, right? Like, I'm just gonna call the top GBP company that pops up and probably call by if
I'm looking for a custom cabinets, I want to probably look at the website, look at what kind of
custom cabinets they have. And a lot of local websites are ugly, right? They look like sites that
were built in like, like 1015 years ago. So yeah, you can get advantage there from a design

standpoint, if you do a really good job in design.
But you know, customers are gonna call multiple companies. So they might call the GBP, they
might go down below the GBP and call the website as well. So you know, I have a student that's
making 15-20k a month with rank and rent, and he doesn't even bother with GBPs, right? So in
the past, when GBPs were easier to get, a lot of people got into rank and rent and only did GBPs.
So they were solely dependent on GBPs for rank and rent. And when it got a little bit more
difficult, those people would now claim rank and rent is dead. But I assure you, I have a lot of
sites, maybe the 130 sites that I have right now, maybe I have GBPs for like 30-40% of them.
And we're still working on maybe getting a few more. But I teach that like, ranking the website is
more important than the GBP, especially when you know the right types of niches. Now we'll get
into Google Business Profile in a little bit.
I want to start with just choosing a niche. So how do you even decide what niches are worth
targeting? There's so many different niches that you can go into. Yeah, absolutely.
And you know, I'm finding about new niches all the time. So let me give you an example. So like
one of the students, they started working with epoxy flooring company.
And that company also does custom storage units for garages. And sure enough, we started
doing research and that's getting search volume. So that's a whole nother niche, especially when
you can hyper target what I like to call sub niches or more obscure niches.
These niches become very, very easy to rank as well. And when you already have a business
owner that's want these jobs, and you can rank easily, it can become quite lucrative. But to go
back to your question, I think anything to do anything that's phone driven, anything that has to do
with home construction niches.
I like targeting niches where the average value of a customer is like two to $3,000. At least I stay
away from the lower ticket stuff personally, like in the really common ones like plumbing, or
plumbing or HVAC or maybe even carpet cleaning. You know, there's place there's things like like
TaskRabbit now where you can hire carpet cleaners.
I think plumbing is that industry in of itself is saturated because there's just so many plumbing
companies. What signals tell you that a local market is too competitive? So I think you got to look
at the competition on a more holistic level. I know some people just look at DR and keyword
difficulty from various SEO tools, but it's not quite that simple to look at competition, you actually
want to do the local searches, you want to analyze the top three, four, five websites.
You know, 100% 100% on this. I'm so with you. Yeah, yeah, like you got to take a look at the site.
Obviously, you know, if you go into personal injury attorney law, all the top three, four sites have

like a DR of like 30 plus. So we avoid that's another beautiful thing about RankinRan is like we
can pick and choose our battles, right? So we'll avoid like very competitive niches like personal
injury law. But in most home construction, the DR, you're dealing with sites that are not that high
in DR, maybe five or less, oftentimes, like DR zeros, then it's about okay, analyzing the website,
how quality it is, right? And most times you visit the website.
What are the keyword structure with the h1, h2, h3? Like just like, like, you know, analyzing as an
SEO agency would like what are the all the SEO mistakes that this site has made? And there's
plenty of mistakes that they have made because most contractors and general contractors, they
may be hired a web developer for like $500 to build them a website, but it has no SEO
optimization behind it. How many pages does this site have index? In many cases, they only
have like 10 pages index. Well, they're now I'm extremely confident and I can outrank this guy
even without backlinks by building topical authority of indexing or ranking 30, 40 pages, right? Are
they using exact match domain or like what kind of keywords are part of their brand name? So I
like to use exact match domains or partial match domains.
So I get confidence there. And so yeah, just looking at, you know, DR is one metric, but it's only
part of the picture. Just looking at the whole site as a everything that I mentioned, and if I see a
bunch of weaknesses, then I feel confident that that's a niche that's not saturated that you can
compete and rank in.
Yeah, dude, that's why I love SEO. Because that's the case in like most niches is that is that a lot
of the top sites that are ranking for for lucrative bottom of funnel keywords, they're doing it
accidentally. Like they don't know what they're doing.
They are they are not targeting these keywords. And just by just by actually targeting the
keyword, you can outrank them, especially if you're an existing business. For you, you're talking
about building businesses from the ground up building sorry, websites from the ground up.
So so looking at authority is quite important because you're like, okay, we're actually gonna have
to like, create authority here. That makes Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And you said that you
prefer you prefer high ticket, low volume versus lower ticket, high volume.
Obviously, you want high ticket high volume. But yeah, you said you're staying out of out of low
ticket. Yeah, like, high ticket, like average volume.
Okay, you know, there are high ticket, super low volume ones that I think as a beginner in ranking
around that I probably would avoid such as let's just say maybe kitchen and bathroom
remodeling. Okay, it's like that's going to be very like high ticket. But oftentimes, these jobs kind
of take a while to close.
People are real price shoppers. These jobs might take a few months to get done. And like, you
know, I have some sites in like adu construction adu stands for additional dwelling unit.

These are only some states California included like people build like like houses like secondary
like small houses in their backyard and whatnot. Those like we're getting leads, but it's difficult to
close. So there's some caveat depending on the industry.
But you know, like anything to do with homes, right? Like drywall, just look around the home and
all the different services that a home needs. You know, drywall, you got, you know, painting, you
got custom cabinets, you got countertops. Yeah, concrete driveways, metal gates, metal fences.
Foundation repair. Yeah, there's a bunch. When I get into actually building the sites now and
ranking the site.
So what is your ideal rank and rent website structure look like? Well, we start off with like a brand
that's good targeting. I like targeting a city that's at least 80,000 population. I think the sweet spot
for most people is going to be 100 to like 300,000 population cities.
You do some searches for that keyword. And again, I like, again, the keyword tools are not even
that great for this either. Because I, for example, drywall, Glendale, California, if you were to put
down a keyword, so it shows zero monthly search volume, but I get plenty of leads with that site
as well.
Because, you know, as long as you do a search and you see businesses and the Google Maps,
at least like 10, 15 businesses, the demand is going to be there once you rank, right? So first, I
pick in the right, pick in the right brand. In terms of the right structure, I mean, you know, you
want, I want the H1 to have the brand name first, the first words in H1 and the brand name, page
title, the brand name as well. And the main keywords after the title, after the H1, the first one to
two paragraphs, in my opinion, is very important.
They want to be very, very clear and identify what that entity does. So if it's like Glendale quality
drywall, the first sentence, I like to repeat the brand Glendale quality windows has 20 years
experience doing X, Y, Z, which X, Y, Z is going to be the main various keywords of services that
that company does. You also want to sort of increase the quality score in the eyes of Google.
I like to like load different entities. When I say entities, different, like maybe engineering terms,
different things that are certain special keywords or not even search keywords, but certain words
that are tied to that industry. You know, such as maybe types of materials for that drywall or
different engineering terms, different, different things that display expertise.
Does that make sense? It makes sense. And you said you're, you're actually mentioning the
company that you're renting the site out to in the copy. So, so no, not the company.
We don't even know what company we're going to rent out the site to. We are creating our own
brand with RankinRent. So Glendale quality drywall is like a brand that I created and I'm writing
as if I am the brand.

So with RankinRent, the mentality that we have is the clients that began renting our sites is
essentially, they're going to now own two different brands. So they already have their own brand,
right? They might be Joe's drywall, but now they're getting leads from Glendale quality drywall,
which is my brand. So now they're essentially operating two different brands and getting leads
from both.
And we kind of treat it as if every lead that we generate with RankinRent are our customers, no
different than in a lot of general contractor industry, like you'll subcontract out the work to other
GCs. We're kind of essentially taking that, that kind of model where we're just renting out our
customers essentially, right? Going back to the structure, does that make sense? Yeah, it does
make sense. It does make sense.
Yeah. Yeah. Is that difficult to explain to the companies that you're sending the leads to? Or it's
just like, hey, if you want these leads, like that's how you got to do it.
You got to act like this is your brand. Yeah, no, exactly. They get it.
They go, you know, at the end of the day... They want the money. They want the money. Exactly.
I mean, I go like, at the end of the day, having two brands is more powerful than having one
brand. It's like a franchise, but better. Like you own two different brands, you know? And my
brands are going to be... My brand is because I've been doing SEO for a while.
It's going to be more powerful in the SERPs because I have keywords in the name and all that
stuff. So once they understand it, they love the idea. Because also with RankinRent, I can begin
building that client, different RankinRent sites targeting different cities surrounding them.
You know, like most of these service-based businesses, they can travel 20-30 mile radius. So
again, this is where RankinRent truly shines as well is that you can start off with a client paying
you $500 a month because your site's generating like maybe 10 leads a month. But then if it's a
good client, they want to scale, you can start building multiple different other RankinRent sites
targeting other cities and get that client from like paying you $500 a month to like $2,000 to
$3,000 a month.
And then they really understand the power and the leverage of owning multiple brands. It's okay.
You're starting with the city.
You're not building out... You start with the city and then maybe you'll build out a larger regional
site. Yeah, regional site or just targeting just other websites that target other types of cities
nearby. And how important are exact match domains to your strategy? It's important.
I think it gives you an edge. So can you give me some examples of what type of EMD you might
use? So a lot of true EMDs are a lot of it's taken, right? Like Glendale, drywall.com. That's

probably taken, right? So I'll add a word in there as well as Glendale quality drywall.com. So I
guess that's technically partial exact match by my opinion. Just having the city and the keyword
there already kind of gives you like an advantage from SEO standpoint because most brands do
not have that.
So yeah. And what pages should every local lead gen site have? Are there any like pages that
every one of your sites has to have? For sure. Like, you know, most local companies, they'll build
like five service pages, you know, and I get it.
That's like the main services that they want, right? That's the moneymaker. So they just build five
service pages. They probably don't even do keyword research.
No, exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. A lot of these sites are built for utility. They're not built with SEO understanding.
Well, yeah, they're built for people going directly to the site. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Like a site you put on a business card and these are the five service...
This file is longer than 30 minutes.
Go Unlimited at https://turboscribe.ai/ to transcribe files up to 10 hours long.
